Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, we are very proud of the volunteer state of
the part that many of our distinguished citizens are playing in the federal government at the
present time.
We have, as you know, a citizen, Ram Dixon, who is chairman of the Federal Trade Commission,
one of the most important regulatory agencies in Washington.
So Joe Swedler, who had a long and fine record with the Tennessee Valley Authority, is chairman
of the old powerful federal power commission that has to do with fixing gas rates and other
matters of that kind.
We are proud of the fact that they are doing very good jobs in their respective positions.
But I know that all of you were related, as I was, when a few weeks ago, President Kennedy
announced the appointment of William Henry of Memphis, Tennessee, to be chairman of the
Federal Communications Commission.
This is a most important agency in Washington.
We are honored to have Bill Henry of Memphis with us on this occasion and Bill Amp have
it introduce you to the listeners and viewers of this good television station.
Thank you very much, Tom.
Pleased to be here for my first time.
All your information, you can see that Mr. Henry is a very young man, of course, both
ever saw it.
Young, I said he came from Memphis where he was practicing law, is one of the leading young
attorneys of that city.
He graduated at Yale University of Yale, with its AB degree, then came down to Vanderbilt
to get his law degree as LLB.
He was very active in the last campaign, doing a great job.
And he has made a fine impression in Washington among people in the broadcasting industry and
others that he has had an opportunity of being associated with.
Bill, some of the part of the best part about him is that he has a lovely wife Sherry,
who is a very popular with the ladies in Washington.
She has a daughter Elizabeth VI and Sherry III.
And you have a...
Only that junior.
And only that junior, we have a two-year-old son.
Yeah, two-year-old William, William, Jr.
Right.
A very fine family.
That picture was in Washington, post just a few days ago.
Well Bill, how do you like being in Washington and tell us something about the Federal Communications
Commission?
Well, I like it very much and I think the reason I like it is because I like my job
so much.
It's fascinating, challenging work.
Well, what is the most important job at the Federal Communications Commission?
Well, we've got a lot of them.
We are set up to regulate not only the broadcasting industry, radio and television, but also telephone,
telegraph, international communications.
I think perhaps we should be able to do that.
How much do we pay for our phone rates?
Right.
We have to fix interstate phone rates, telegraph rates, overseas cable rates and so on.
I think our most important job at the moment is to implement the Communications Satellite
Bill that was passed last year by the Congress.
See that gets off the ground properly and it integrates properly with the rest of the
countries in the world.
So that we can truly have an international space communication satellite.
That's right.
I think hope we all consider some of the good amendments that some of us offer to the
Bill when we have it.
We're considered all of those.
It's extremely important now because it's a unique thing.
It's never done with something about it.
We talked about it on the floor of the Senate for weeks and weeks and weeks at Info Nimton,
but tell us something about the space communication satellites.
Well, we could take up the whole program with that.
Briefly, it's a unique combination of business enterprise and government regulation.
It's 50% owned by the so-called Common Carriers, which would include AT&T, IT&T,
medication, RCA and so on, right, communication carriers, and 50% by the public.
And then it's regulated thoroughly by the FCC.
We established the rates.
We decide where the ground stations will be, what type they'll be, whether the corporation
will own them, whether they'll lease them and so on.
And the corporation itself has the job of putting the orbiting satellites into operation
and of dealing with all of the foreign countries that they must deal with to interconnect over
there.
So all in all, it's a most challenging job that we have in front of us.
Bill, the communication satellite is put up a NASA rocket.
I believe the present ones are 600, 700,000 miles high.
Has been proposed to the UNB in orbit 22,000 miles, as in the 23th.
A signal is sent, and then it's from here, then it's sent back to a ground station in
England, so that people can talk back and forth.
Television can be sent by way of the satellite.
The idea is to bring the world closer together to make it easier to communicate.
And that will be the way of communication in the years to come.
I don't think there's any doubt about that.
The problem is to, it's extremely expensive to get a satellite system in operation.
And that's why it's got to be so carefully watched and guided so that it can be done in
a practical manner.
But even in this nation, as between Washington and San Francisco or Washington and Hawaii or Alaska,
communication satellite can be used rather than the regular telephone lines, can't they?
They can, of course, it's not operational yet.
And many of the companies are going ahead and putting in the regular cables.
So it's got to be all tied in together.
And it's just tying in and coordination that really makes it the job that it is.
And do you think it will be operational?
Well, it's hard to say.
Some people say it'll be in 1970 or so.
Some people say it'll be in the mid-60s.
Of course, we all hope that it will be as soon as possible, but yet not oversold and put
up before it's really ready.
So it has to be a number of satellites in order to have communications available for all
parts of the world.
Right.
I just wanted to look because if one goes out, then you've lost communications and you've
got no real system at all.
Well, are you the FCC and others talking with the British and the French and the Germans
and even the Russians about joining in the program?
That's one of the jobs that the corporation satellite itself is now doing.
We at the FCC and we are using our good offices to put them together and to help them.
But they are in the process now talking with the Canadians and I think they plan to go
to Europe very shortly and talk to the British Post Office and the offices on the continent.
And then there will be a meeting I believe at the end of this year, the reference to the
assignment of channels in Geneva.
There's an conference in Geneva in October that will go into the allocation of all the
frequencies for all purposes that will be used in space.
So that's all very interesting and that in itself is a big job.
How many members of the FCC are there?
Well, there's seven commissioners.
Seven commissioners, one of whom is Chairman.
Then you have quite a staff, but we in the Congress never give you quite enough money
to do it.
Well, we never get enough money, but on the other hand, we are trying very hard to abide
by the President's order which he issued some time ago saying to try to let the President
know, do the extra jobs instead of hiring extra men and try to get along on the same
budget?
Well, you have a charge of program programming of television and radio.
What's the FCC's concern about programming at the present time?
Well, programming, of course, is the end product of broadcasting and therefore we must be concerned
with it since we are required to see that television radio operate in the public interest.
Is a very fine line, however, between regulation on outlawed in the public interest and in
no censorship provisions of the First Amendment and the Section 326 of the Communications
Act.
We operate somewhere in between and we are concerned primarily with the overall operations of
the stations in the public interest.
What I mean concern at the moment is to see that the programs which the people can listen
to and can pick from and choose from is a variety of subjects, not just the same old thing,
every night or every weekend.
And I think they could stand some improvement along those lines.
Yeah, well, I had the flu here a while back and I was in bed and seemed to me about the
only programs I could find would be to shoot them up programs, the violent programs,
while some of my enjoy to them.
But of course, there again, you got problem censorship, but I do know that you're interested
in trying to get television stations to have more public service programs, more...
The reason that we are is because I think there are a lot of people who feel that they
should be more and that's our job after all is to see that what they get, what they feel,
what the people feel there is a need and an interest in.
And then how about the programs, the educational channels?
Do they come under your supervision?
We have to, we license all, not only the commercial broadcasters, but also the educational
television stations.
How are they getting along?
I've been very interested in that.
Well, they are progressing pretty well.
There's been a great deal of recent interest in educational television.
With the passage last year by the Congress of authority for the federal government to
provide matching funds to states for educational television facilities.
A lot of the states have now applied for networks.
We must issue the licenses for those educational networks.
The whole thing is developing, I think, very well.
It's interesting, I think, your audience would be interested in the fact that we believe,
some of us do at any rate, that the more educational television succeeds, the more it gets an interest
in the community and people begin to look at it and enjoy it, it will upgrade all television.
The commercial television will then have some competition will better itself.
Commercial television then have programs like we're putting on, very educational,
and struck many people.
How many educational channels do we have or stations do we have in Tennessee?
I don't know, offhand, I think the Tennessee legislature, so I'm not mistaken,
just passed the law authorizing the proper state authority to petition the FCC for some channels
looking towards the state in-school network.
There's some in-school, there's some out-of-school.
The one in Memphis, I do know, was one of the very early television stations, and of course,
I think it can be proud of that.
I mean, everyone in Nashville, I believe.
Very well.
In Nashville, Channel 2.
I heard the television stations doing generally, I think we have some other fine television
under it.
Well, I haven't heard any complaints, and so I can assume that they're doing well.
You mean, if they weren't doing what you'd be hearing complaints, you know?
Well, hopefully we would, yes.
Well, what is the public's role in broadcasting?
Well, that points it up.
The public's role, as I see it, is to let the stations know what they like, what they don't
like, and when they're interested in not being served.
And I think one of our big jobs is to try to get across to the public that they do have
a role in what's put on.
We're set up by law to try to get the stations to put on what they want.
And I think it's a good combination.
The more they would be interested in it, the more they would let us know about it, and
I think the better they'd be served.
In other words, are you like to have suggestions from the public for kind of programs they like?
Well, I think, yes.
I think it's more important that they tell that to the broadcasters.
And if they have general suggestions about lack of variety or that programs they like
or not at the right time or things like that, that they're all helpful in us, we can't,
as I say, we can never get into specific programs because of the censorship provision
and rightly so.
We understand there must be commercials in order for the television radio stations to
make money, which has come out even.
How about some of these very, very loud commercials?
Well, we've had a lot of complaints about that, and we're looking into it.
It's a tough question because it's a subjective thing.
What is loud to one person may be a little bit different to another, and the problem is
measuring it, but we're hopeful, and I think we'll get out of rule on it shortly.
Well, Bill Henry, I want to thank you for coming and being with us, and we're very
proud of you.
I am.
Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
We'll see you again later on.